# Admin Boundaries Update of may 2022
Following the new update from BFS for may 2022, the geocat team launched a new update for the updated admin units in geocat.  

### Geojson reference file source
* The shapefiles from BFS have been taken (generalization 1)
* `g1g22.shp` (municipalities), `g1g22_encl.shp` (enclaves DE & IT), `g1g22_li.shp` (municipalities from FL) and `g1s22.shp` (Lakes) 
have been merged together to create a single file for municipalities.

### LV95 -> WGS84
Since the data from BFS and swisstopo are in LV95. The shapefile have been transformed with the georef app from swisstopo. The exit SRS must be in WGS84 in degrees. 
* The georef app doesn't save the `.cpg` file when exporting in shapefile. It must be manually copied and renamed to match the other files. This file contains the encoding info for the attributes table. It is used to read correctly the accents.
* The georef app export the wrong `.prj` file when exporting in shapefile. It must be deleted and the projection must be explicitly given when importing the shapefile in GIS software.

### SHP -> Geojson
Used the [FME WorkBench](./shp2geojson.fmw) to transform the different shapefiles into a geojson ready for the tool.

### Results
**PROD & INT**
> 2209 **municipalities** (before update) - 2207 (after update)  
> 2182 have same UUID and name : nothing done (they are not replaced)  
> 2 new ones will be created  
> 27 old municipalities. 5 not linked to MD will be erased ! 22 linked to MD, will remain untouched.  
